Add command to disable notations (#12324)
coq/coq: doc/sphinx/user-extensions/syntax-extensions.rst

   end
   where "n + m" := (plus n m).

Enabling and disabling notations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. cmd:: {| Enable | Disable } Notation {? {| @string | @qualid } } {? := @one_term } {? ( {+, @enable_notation_flag } ) } {? {| : @ident | : no scope } }
   :name: Enable Notation; Disable Notation

   .. insertprodn enable_notation_flag enable_notation_flag

   .. prodn::
      enable_notation_flag ::= all
      | only parsing
      | only printing
      | in custom @ident
      | in constr

   Enables or disables notations previously defined with
   :cmd:`Notation` or :cmd:`Notation (abbreviation)`.
   It has no effect on notations reserved with :cmd:`Reserved Notation`.
   At least one of

>    :token:`string`, :token:`qualid`, :token:`one_term` or scope must be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :token:`string`, :token:`qualid`, :token:`one_term` or :token:`scope_name` must be
```

   provided.
   When multiple clauses are provided, the notations enabled or
   disabled must satisfy all of their constraints.

   This command supports the :attr:`local` and :attr:`global`
   attributes.

   :n:`@string`
      Notations to enable or disable. :n:`@string` can be a single
      token in the notation such as "`->`" or a pattern that matches
      the notation. See :ref:`locating-notations`.

   :n:`@qualid`
      :ref:`Abbreviation <Abbreviations>` to enable or disable.

   :n:`{? := @one_term }`
      Enable or disable notations matching :token:`one_term`.
      :token:`one_term` can be written using notations or not, as well
      as :n:`_`, just like in the :cmd:`Notation` command.

   :n:`all`
      Enable or disable all notations meeting the given constraints,

>       even if multiple ones. Otherwise, there must be a single

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      even if there are multiple ones. Otherwise, there must be a single
```

      notation meeting the constraints.

   :n:`only parsing`
      The notation is enabled or disabled only for parsing.

   :n:`only printing`
      The notation is enabled or disabled only for printing.

   :n:`in custom @ident`
      Enable or disable notations in the given :ref:`custom entry
      <custom-entries>`.

   :n:`in constr`
      Enable or disable notations in the custom entry for :n:`constr`.
      See :ref:`custom entries <custom-entries>`.

>    :n:`{? {| : @ident | : no scope } }`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :n:`{| : @ident | : no scope }`
```

>       If given, only notations in scope :token:`ident` are affected (or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      If given, only notations in scope :token:`scope_name` are affected (or
```

>       :term:`lonely notations <lonely notation>` for ``no scope``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      :term:`lonely notations <lonely notation>` for :n:`no scope`).
```

   end
   where "n + m" := (plus n m).

Enabling and disabling notations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. cmd:: {| Enable | Disable } Notation {? {| @string | @qualid } } {? := @one_term } {? ( {+, @toggle_notation_flag } ) } {? {| : no scope | : @ident } }

>    :name: Disable Notation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :name: Enable Notation; Disable Notation
```

So both forms appear in the index

   .. insertprodn toggle_notation_flag toggle_notation_flag toggle_notation_flag

   .. prodn::
      toggle_notation_flag ::= all
      | only parsing
      | only printing
      | in custom @ident
      | in constr

   Enables or disables notations previously defined with
   :cmd:`Notation` or :cmd:`Notation (abbreviation)`. At least one of
   :token:`string`, :token:`qualid`, :token:`one_term` or scope must be

>    provided. If more than one is provided, the notations enabled or

Reviewer 2: Here is an attempt. The combinatorics means 7 possibilities. This feels a bit verbose to me but no strong opinion, if you think it's better, I'll trust you.

>    provided. If more than one is provided, the notations enabled or

Reviewer: Yeah, too verbose, not what I meant.  Listing all the possibilities forces the reader to compare them to find how they differ.  I just mean to remove the `{? ... }` in `{? ( {+, @toggle_notation_flag } ) }` if that's correct (apparently not).  I guess your original sentence is correct.  What error does `Enable Notation.` give, if any?

>    provided. If more than one is provided, the notations enabled or

Reviewer 2: > apparently not

Indeed, this part is (unfortunately) not mandatory (omiting it is even likely the most common case)

> What error does Enable Notation. give, if any?

`.. exn:: No notation provided. ` as documented below

      | in custom @ident
      | in constr

   Enables or disables notations previously defined with
   :cmd:`Notation` or :cmd:`Notation (abbreviation)`.

>    This command has no effect on parser modifications made with
>    :cmd:`Reserved Notation`.
>    When multiple
>    informations are provided, the notations enabled or
>    disabled are the ones meeting the conjunction of all constraints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   It has no effect on notations reserved with :cmd:`Reserved Notation`.
   When multiple clauses are provided, the notations enabled or
   disabled must satisfy all of their constraints.
```

Best not to introduce a second phrase "parser modifications"
English doesn't use "informations".  "information" is an uncountable noun.  If you want to emphasize that there are multiple items, pick a different noun.

      Notations to enable or disable. :n:`@string` can be a single
      token in the notation such as "`->`" or a pattern that matches
      the notation. See :ref:`locating-notations`.

   :n:`@qualid`
      :ref:`Abbreviation <Abbreviations>` to enable or disable.

   :n:`{? := @one_term }`

>       Enable or disable notations involving :token:`one_term`.

Reviewer 2: Indeed, is `containing` better ?

>       Enable or disable notations involving :token:`one_term`.

Reviewer: How about ```matching :token:`one_term` ```?  IIUC that's fundamentally what it's about.  If correct, maybe say matching is based on the AST after expanding any notations in `one_term`.  (`one_term` can be written using notations or not as the user prefers, right?  (perhaps worth mentioning?)

>    :n:`{? {| : no scope | : @ident } }`

Reviewer: Helloooo out there, you skipped this one again.  Please do it or say why not.

>    :n:`{? {| : no scope | : @ident } }`

Reviewer 2: Sorry, I was sure I answered but obviously not. As I said above https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/12324#discussion_r1009212477, I'm unfortunately unable to write the appropriate thing in `common_edit.mlg`. But you're perfectly right this should be `scope_name`.

Here is what I tried
```
| REPLACE [ "Enable" | "Disable" ] "Notation" OPT [ string | qualid ] OPT ( ":=" one_term ) OPT ( "(" LIST1 enable_notation_flag SEP "," ")" ) OPT [ ":" ident | ":" "no" "scope" ]
| WITH    [ "Enable" | "Disable" ] "Notation" OPT [ string | qualid ] OPT ( ":=" one_term ) OPT ( "(" LIST1 enable_notation_flag SEP "," ")" ) OPT [ ":" scope_name | ":" "no" "scope" ]
```
(copied from `orderedGrammar`)
but I get the following error
```
make doc_gram_rsts
Error: Undefined nonterminal `one_term` in edit: [ "Enable" | "Disable" ] "Notation" OPT [ string | qualid ] OPT ( ":=" one_term ) OPT ( "(" LIST1 enable_notation_flag SEP "," ")" ) OPT\
 [ ":" scope_name | ":" "no" "scope" ]
Error: Can't find '[ "Enable" | "Disable" ] "Notation" OPT [ string | qualid ] OPT ( ":=" one_term ) OPT ( "(" LIST1 enable_notation_flag SEP "," ")" ) OPT [ ":" ident | ":" "no" "scope\
" ]' in edit for 'syntax'
2 error(s)
```
Any help here would be welcome.

>    :n:`{? {| : no scope | : @ident } }`

Reviewer: Easily solved.  `constr` is renamed to `one_term` towards the end of the file, after your edit.  If you temporarily insert `| PRINT` at the point of your failing edit, `doc_grammar` will print the current definition of the containing nonterminal (perhaps `simple_tactic`).  Probably just use `constr` here instead of `one_term` in both lines.

>    :n:`{? {| : no scope | : @ident } }`

Reviewer 2: Thanks a lot, that worked like a charm!

   :n:`@one_term`
      Enable or disable notations whose interpretation contains :token:`one_term`.

   :n:`all`
      Enable or disable all notations meeting the given constraints,

>       even if multiple ones. When not provided, there must be a single
>       notation meeting the constraints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      even if there are multiple ones. Otherwise there must be a single
      notation meeting the constraints.
```

What error do you get if there are multiple matches?

Reviewer 2: ```
.. exn:: More than one interpretation bound to this notation, confirm with the "all" modifier.
```
as documented below

   :n:`only parsing`
      The notation is enabled or disabled only for parsing.

   :n:`only printing`
      The notation is enabled or disabled only for printing.

   :n:`in custom @ident`
      Enable or disable notations in given :ref:`custom entry
      <custom-entries>`.

   :n:`in constr`
      Enable or disable notations in ``constr``. See

>       :ref:`custom entries <custom-entries>`.

Reviewer 2: Well, constr here is a particular case of custom entry, hence the explicit reference to custom entries where this is explained (after a few paragraphs, maybe this would require a more precise reference).

>       Enable or disable notations in ``constr``. See

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Enable or disable notations in the custom entry for :n:`constr`. See
```

Yes?

      :ref:`custom entries <custom-entries>`.

>    :n:`{? {| : no scope | : @ident } }`
>       If given, only notations in scope :token:`ident` are affected (or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :n:`{| : no scope | : @ident }`
      Only notations in scope :token:`ident` are affected (or
```

If `ident` is the more common case, I'd put that before `no scope` everywhere (mlgs, doc).  Your explanation here covers `ident` first.  And shouldn't `ident` be something like `scope` (scope_name, scope_key)?

Reviewer 2: > If `ident` is the more common case, I'd put that before `no scope` everywhere (mlgs, doc). Your explanation here covers `ident` first.

Right, done

> And shouldn't `ident` be something like `scope` (scope_name, scope_key)?

It should indeed be `scope_name`, see above comment https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/12324#discussion_r1011379013

      :term:`lonely notations <lonely notation>` for :n:`no scope`).

   .. exn:: Unexpected only printing for an only parsing notation.

      Cannot enable or disable for printing a notation that was
      originally defined as only parsing.

   .. exn:: Unexpected only parsing for an only printing notation.

      Cannot enable or disable for parsing a notation that was
      originally defined as only printing.

   .. exn:: Found no matching notation to enable.

      No previously defined notation satisfies the given constraints.

   .. exn:: Found no matching notation to disable.

>       No previously defined notation satisfies the given constraints.

Reviewer: These could be one message.  From the command syntax, it will be obvious whether it's enabling or disabling.

   .. exn:: More than one interpretation bound to this notation, confirm with the "all" modifier.

>       Use the ``all`` option to allow enabling or disabling multiple

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Use the :n:`all` to allow enabling or disabling multiple
```

   end
   where "n + m" := (plus n m).

Deactivating notations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. cmd:: Notation Set {? {| @string | @qualid } } {? := @one_term } {? ( {+, @notation_set_flag } ) } {? {| : no scope | : @ident } }

>          Notation Unset {? {| @string | @qualid } } {? := @one_term } {? ( {+, @notation_set_flag } ) } {? {| : no scope | : @ident } }

Reviewer 2: > Since the right hand sides are the same, how about combining them

Right, done

> I see everything on the right hand side is optional. Is that syntactically correct? Are there semantic checks that something that some of them are present? (What, if anything would Notation Set. do?

Added a sentence and documented the error is nothing is present.

> Also, would you rename @ident to @scope, @scope_name or @scope_key to correspond to its semantics?

I'd love to but I was unable to find the correct `REPLACE` statement to add in `common_edit.mlg`

   .. insertprodn notation_set_flag notation_set_flag

   .. prodn::
      notation_set_flag ::= in custom @ident
      | in constr
      | only parsing
      | only printing

>    Control the activation of notation :token:`string` or
>    :ref:`abbreviation <Abbreviations>` :token:`qualid` or all
>    notations for :token:`one_term`. If given, only notations in scope
>    :token:`ident` are affected (or lonely notations for ``no scope``).
>    The :token:`notation_set_flag` enables to selectively disable or
>    enable parsing or printing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Enables or disables previously defined notations.
   
   :n:`@string`
     The notation string.
     
   :n:`@qualid`
     The qualified name of a previously defined notation or :ref:`abbreviation <Abbreviations>`.
     (explain whether the local/export mechanism applies to notations)

    If given, only notations in scope
   :token:`ident` are affected (or lonely notations for ``no scope``).
   
   :n:`only parsing`
     The notation is enabled or disabled only for parsing.
     
   :n:`only printing`
     The notation is enabled or disabled only for printing.
```

I think this needs a good bit of work to be understandable to users who may be learning or not an expert.  What you have is perhaps reasonable for someone who knows the feature well.

Some details to address:
- First sentence is too dense.
- "control the activation" is vague.  My guess is that the purpose of the command is to dynamically enable and disable previously defined notations.  If correct, please say that.  "Set" and "Unset" suggest creating or removing a notation, perhaps they should be "Enable" and "Disable"
- If correct, say that `string` is just a notation string and `qualid` is the name of a notation **that was previously defined** with `Notation`.  If it could be from `Reserved Notation`, mention that, too.
- I don't understand "all notations for :token:`one_term`" at all.  Probably deserves an example, perhaps in `.. coqtop::` form
- Need to explain `in custom @ident` and `in constr`

I'll take another look after you've revised this.

Reviewer 2: >     * First sentence is too dense.

Indeed, thanks for the suggestion
 
>     * "control the activation" is vague.  My guess is that the purpose of the command is to dynamically enable and disable previously defined notations.  If correct, please say that.  "Set" and "Unset" suggest creating or removing a notation, perhaps they should be "Enable" and "Disable"

Right, changed to `Enable` and `Disable`
 
>     * If correct, say that `string` is just a notation string and `qualid` is the name of a notation **that was previously defined** with `Notation`.  If it could be from `Reserved Notation`, mention that, too.

done
 
>     * I don't understand "all notations for :token:`one_term`" at all.  Probably deserves an example, perhaps in `.. coqtop::` form

Maybe, let me know if you still think this deserves small examples. I could easily add a few.

>     * Need to explain `in custom @ident` and `in constr`

done
 
>     * Should "lonely notations" be listed in the glossary?

Indeed, done
